Python-notes.md, before:

Python Support in dot-home
==========================

This will not be implemented before we rewrite dot-home no longer to
use symlinks, but instead copy files (for Windows support).


Per-module Virtual Environments
-------------------------------

Each module that has a `dh/requirements.txt` file will have it's own
Python venv (or virtualenv?) created for it, as follows:

1. Create the venv `--without-pip` if a version of python with venv is
   available.
   - If not, do we bootstrap virtualenv?
   - Provide an option to ask that dot-home use a specific Python
     interpreter on this host, e.g., `$(pythonz locate 3.7.3)` ==
     `~/.pythonz/pythons/CPython-3.7.3/bin/python3`?

2. Bootstrap `pip` into the venv with `get-pip.py` from
   <https://bootstrap.pypa.io/get-pip.py>. We probably want
   `--no-setuptools`, and may want `--no-wheel`.

3. `pip install -r $module/dh/requirements.txt` (or put "python" in
   the name of that file?).

4. Find a list of any binaries installed into the virtualenv that
   should be made globally available, and add shims from them in
   `~/.local/bin/`.

5. For all files in `$module/bin/` that contain `python` in the
   shebang, install a shim in `~/.local/bin/`.
   - Linux: copy the file and change only the shebang to point to the
     venv's interpreter.
   - [Windows][win]: figure out what pip does for its shims (they're
     Windows executables) and do something similar. Or perhaps
     generate a `.cmd` version of the file from `$module/bin/` that
     contains the kind of header that `aws-cli/bin/aws.cmd` contains.

Some of the work being done here (especially the bootstrap stuff) is
similar to what the [sedoc activate][virtualenv] script does. Consider
extracting that to its own repo, adding a test framework, and re-using
that code for dot-home's support of this stuff. (Perhaps it can be
extended to offer direct support to "clients" like dot-home.)


References
----------

- [Python on Windows references][win]
- [Virtualenv reference][virtualenv] (probably needs venv info added)
- The [`site` module][site] has most of the path etc. setup code that
  uses `sys.executable` (always an absolute path) to figure out to add
  the virtualenv's `lib/python3.5/site-packages/` path.



<!-------------------------------------------------------------------->
[site]: https://docs.python.org/3/library/site.html
[win]: https://github.com/0cjs/sedoc/blob/master/lang/python/runtime/win.md
[virtualenv]: https://github.com/0cjs/sedoc/blob/master/lang/python/runtime/virtualenv.md

Commit message:

WIP Python-notes: Local configuration

Python-notes.md, after:

Python Support in dot-home
==========================

This will not be implemented before we rewrite dot-home no longer to
use symlinks, but instead copy files (for Windows support).


Per-module Virtual Environments
-------------------------------

Each module that has a `dh/requirements.txt` file will have it's own
Python venv (or virtualenv?) created for it, as follows:

1. Create the venv `--without-pip` if a version of python with venv is
   available.
   - If not, do we bootstrap virtualenv?
   - Provide an option to ask that dot-home use a specific Python
     interpreter on this host, e.g., `$(pythonz locate 3.7.3)` ==
     `~/.pythonz/pythons/CPython-3.7.3/bin/python3`?

2. Bootstrap `pip` into the venv with `get-pip.py` from
   <https://bootstrap.pypa.io/get-pip.py>. We probably want
   `--no-setuptools`, and may want `--no-wheel`.

3. `pip install -r $module/dh/requirements.txt` (or put "python" in
   the name of that file?).

4. Find a list of any binaries installed into the virtualenv that
   should be made globally available, and add shims from them in
   `~/.local/bin/`.

5. For all files in `$module/bin/` that contain `python` in the
   shebang, install a shim in `~/.local/bin/`.
   - Linux: copy the file and change only the shebang to point to the
     venv's interpreter.
   - [Windows][win]: figure out what pip does for its shims (they're
     Windows executables) and do something similar. Or perhaps
     generate a `.cmd` version of the file from `$module/bin/` that
     contains the kind of header that `aws-cli/bin/aws.cmd` contains.

Some of the work being done here (especially the bootstrap stuff) is
similar to what the [sedoc activate][virtualenv] script does. Consider
extracting that to its own repo, adding a test framework, and re-using
that code for dot-home's support of this stuff. (Perhaps it can be
extended to offer direct support to "clients" like dot-home.)


Per-module Local (to Host) Configuration
----------------------------------------

You can create a `$module/dh/local.conf` file (which you will want not
to commit and add to your `.gitignore`) for configuration settings
particular to this host. One example would be the path to the Python
interpreter to be used for that module's venv. (E.g., that module has
code requiring Python 3.7, but the system Python is 3.5, so you build
your own personal copy of Python 3.7 for that system.)

Config file format is [configparser][] (basically, `.INI`).


References
----------

- [Python on Windows references][win]
- [Virtualenv reference][virtualenv] (probably needs venv info added)
- The [`site` module][site] has most of the path etc. setup code that
  uses `sys.executable` (always an absolute path) to figure out to add
  the virtualenv's `lib/python3.5/site-packages/` path.



<!-------------------------------------------------------------------->
[configparser]: https://docs.python.org/3/library/configparser.html
[site]: https://docs.python.org/3/library/site.html
[virtualenv]: https://github.com/0cjs/sedoc/blob/master/lang/python/runtime/virtualenv.md
[win]: https://github.com/0cjs/sedoc/blob/master/lang/python/runtime/win.md
